We have selected the theme be a champion of truth
You may have heard of the word champion used in the context of sports
What is a champion?
The word can have different meanings
The word is related to the French word
Shaw meaning field that word has its origin in the Latin word
Compass also meaning field or battlefield
The Bible speaks of a champion on a battlefield in 1 Samuel chapter 17 and verse 4
Then a champion came out from the camps of the Philistines his name was Goliath
Goliath was a champion for a wrong cause namely to take the lead in defeating the ancient Israelites in battle
In our modern time according to one definition a champion is an ardent defender or supporter of a cause or another person
Christians today are ardent defenders and supporters of the truth
The watchtower of January 15, 2012 said on page 8
quote
Other champions of Bible truth rose up in the centuries that followed
Yes, before the watchtower said this magazine will never shrink in fear from championing the truth
The watchtower has been championing the cause of kingdom truth
So are you a champion in a sports competition only one individual gets to be the champion
But in the case of true Christians all can be champions of the truth
All Christians are to defend the truth and become conquerors winners
It's necessary to defend the truth because in today's world truth is being attacked and distorted
We are surrounded by a sea of lies and misrepresentations
How did such lies get started?
They started in the Garden of Eden when Satan told Eve lies
Satan through his deceptive statements became the father of the lie
All the problems in the world all calamities also your personal calamities
All wars these all diseases all crimes all unhappiness
sorrow and death started with the original lies in the Garden of Eden
Satan is the father of the lie but today there are many children of the lie
Every one of us is affected we are surrounded by a sea of lies
A lie is a false statement deliberately presented as being true a falsehood
A lie is the opposite of the truth
Lying involves saying something incorrect to a person who is entitled to know the truth about a matter
But there is also something that is called a half truth
The Bible tells Christians to be honest with each other
Now that you have put away the seat speak truth broke the Apostle Paul at Ephesians 4.25
Lies and half truth undermine trust
A German proverb says who lies once is not believed even if he says the truth
So we need to speak openly and honestly with each other
Not withholding bits of information that could change the perception in the listener or mislead him
As to lies there are different types some politicians have lied about matters they wanted to keep secret
Companies sometimes lie in advertisements regarding their products
What about the news media many tried to report events
Truthfully but we should not be gullible and believe everything newspapers write or everything we hear on radio or sea on television
Then there are religious lies if Satan is called the father of the lie then Babylon the great the global empire of false religion can be called the mother of the lie
Individual false religions could be called daughters of the lie
Some lie by saying that sinners will get tormented in hell forever
Others lie by saying once saved always saved
Again others lie by saying that the earth will be burned up on judgment day and all good people will go to heaven
Some worship idols
Paul wrote in Romans chapter 1 and 25
They exchanged the truth of God for the lie and venerated and rendered sacred service to the creation rather than the creator
Then there are many lies of a personal nature that people express in everyday life
The businessmen may get a phone call but tell his secretary to answer the caller by saying he's not in
This may be considered a small lie
There are small lies big lies and malicious lies
A child may have broken something but when asked initially out of fear of punishment denies having done it
This does not make the child a malicious liar
In contrast what even entrepreneur tells his bookkeeper to falsify the entries in the books in order to save on taxes
This lying to the tax office is certainly a serious lie
It is a deliberate attempt to mislead somebody that has the right to know
It also robs the government of what they have established as legal income
We can see that not all lies are the same
They are small lies big lies and malicious lies
Satan is a malicious liar. He is the champion of the lie
Since Jehovah hates liars
We should avoid all lies not just big or malicious lies
But can we find the truth?
Some say truth is relative
It is like saying this is truth for you and this is truth for me
This claim is not logical when it comes to religious truth
Either God is a Trinity or he is not
Either the soul is mortal or it is not
Either there is a future paradise on earth or there is not
Either homosexuality is acceptable to God or it is not
Either participating in wars is permissible or it is not
Truth is definite not relative because Jehovah conveyed the truth to his servants
Some 43 verse 3 says
Send out your light and your truth
Jehovah is a revealer of truth
One of several reasons why Jesus came into the world is to witness to the truth
At the John 1837 B he said
For this I have been born and for this I have come into the world that I should bear witness to the truth
Everyone who is on the side of the truth listens to my voice
So if we listen to Jesus or read in the Bible what he thought we can learn the truth
Jesus was the personification of the truth
He said I am the way and the truth and the lie
We can't find out what the truth is by diligently studying the Bible
Truth is that which is effect
For true Christians the entire text of the Hebrew and Christian Greek scriptures constitutes the truth
Some 19 verse 160 says of Jehovah
The essence of your word is truth
That is why it is good to do daily Bible reading with meditation and weekly family worship
At Matthew 24, 45 to 47 we read that for the time of the end
Jesus would appoint a faithful and discreet slave or governing body to explain the Bible to his followers and help them to grow in understanding of the truth
Where as Jesus teachings and the written word of God are inspired the faithful and discreet slave is not inspired
Although it champions the truth
Nevertheless the faithful slave provides spiritual food
Whereas in the first century there was supernatural knowledge available for apostles and Bible writers
In the time of the end Jehovah does not bestow this miraculous gift anymore
As explained at 1 Corinthians 138
Although there is no divine inspiration today still Jesus leads his people progressively through the services of the faithful slave
Jesus trust that the imperfect faithful slave will do its best to convey spiritual food
Do you also trust the slave
Where as the truth of God's word does not change
Our understanding of the truth does change because we are not perfect yet
We understand more about the truth today than Christians in the first century
Do we keep up with the progressive understanding of truth
Daniel was told
Many will rove about and the true knowledge will become abundant
This is a gradual process. We are still roving about
During the millennium Jehovah will reveal additional truth to mankind
At Revelation 2012 it mentions scrolls that will be opened
The Apostle John reports that the dead are to be judged out of those things written in the scrolls according to their deeds
Evidently then these scrolls will contain additional information for mankind during the thousand years
It stands to reason that after the end of the millennium there will be additional truths to learn
Still
According to Ecclesiastes
3 verse 11
Mankind will never find out the work that the true God has made
But how do we know we have the truth
At Pentecost 33 of our common era true Christians numbered only about 3000
Today we are millions and on average every weekend more than 5000 are getting baptized
But this in itself is not proof that we have the truth
Truth is not measured in numbers
Why do we know we have the truth
For one because we remain in Jesus teaching John 831
Second we know we have the truth because of the deep bond of love for each other John 1335
Third we know we have the truth because our conduct adheres to the high moral standards of truth
John 1510
Fourth we know we have the truth because we remain neutral in the controversies of the world as Jesus advised at John 1714
Fifth we know we have the truth because we are God's name people
Acts 1514 speaks of a people for his name
Jesus said the truth will set you free
It sets us free from fears like the fear of death fear of the future
And an exaggerated fear of man
It also sets us free from false teachings
From spiritism and from astrology and magic
It frees us from immorality and its consequences
There are no other people on earth that are as spiritually free as we are
Do we appreciate that freedom
Truth leads to freedom. Second Corinthians 317 says where the spirit of Jehovah is there is freedom
The truth penetrates schools. How so?
By means of our children who preach the truth to classmates and to teachers
Do you go to school? Do you champion the truth at school?
How can you do this? You do this not only by preaching but also by your
By your dress and grooming and by taking a stand for the truth when others want you to participate in un-Christian practices
You also champion the truth by remaining honest and not cheating on your exams
And Jehovah will love you for that
The truth also penetrates prisons
Reports have come in from many countries telling of the good work brothers are doing in contacting prisoners in various prisons
Helping some to rehabilitate their lives spiritually
In a number of such institutions regular meetings are being held and several prisoners have studied to the point of dedication and baptism
The truth penetrates even walls of monasteries in Mexico in 2009
Anun was baptized who because of the truth had left her monastery and order although she was the mother superior
The world is in utter confusion
What a blessing to know the truth
We rejoice in it. We have the truth on our lips. We have the truth around our hips
Ephesians chapter 6 says that the belt of truth is fastened around our wastes
We are ready to teach it
We talk the truth and we walk in the truth
And those who continue to walk in the truth will walk in it forever
Help your students to love the truth and to live the truth
But if necessary to be willing to die for the truth and for Jehovah
The truth is invincible and we'll conquer this wicked world
In some countries we may have many enemies who may want to silence us
But the Apostle Paul said at 2nd Corinthians chapter 13 verse 8
For we can do nothing against the truth
Neither can our enemies suppress the truth
Do we appreciate that we have the truth? The only truth?
Is this arrogant to say by no means it would be a sin if we would not say so
Jesus was not arrogant when he said I am the truth
To know the truth is not enough. We need to champion it
There are still many lovers of truth out there
Search for them
Who will help you in the search
According to John 4 23, Jesus said that Jehovah is searching for ones that want to worship in truth
The majority will not listen to the truth because they love the darkness rather than the light
The truth may expose their sinful conduct and they may not have the humility to want to repent and change
We still have to preach to them to warn them
Ezekiel was told you must warn them from me
The principle applies to us as well
Paul speaks of the sword of God's word
Use it well to champion the truth
Train your students to be good defenders of it as well
The time will come in paradise after the final test
When it will not be necessary to champion or defend the truth because nobody will attack it anymore
Right now whether we are adults, teenagers or children let us follow and imitate Jesus the greatest champion of truth
To that end keep studying the truth keep spreading the truth keep loving the truth and Jehovah the God of truth
Hold fast to the truth as to a lifeline as this is what it is
By staying faithful whether you survive Armageddon or are resurrected in paradise
You will be a victorious champion of the truth